---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Week 7
categories: [Week 7]
title: Notes from College Board 1.1
comments: true
--- 

{% include submenu2.html %}

# Notes from College Board 1.1

Learning Objectives
CRD - 1.A Explain how innovations are improved through collaboration.
CRD - 1.A.1 A computing innovation includes a program as an integral part of its function.
CRD - 1.A.2 A computer innovation can be physica (i.e., self-driving car), non physical computing software (e.g., picture editing software), or a nonphysical computng concept (e.g., e-commerce).
CRD - 1.A.3 Effective collaboration produces a computing innovation that reflects the diversity of talents and perspectives of those who designed it.
CRD - 1.A.4 Collaboration that incudes diverse perspectives helps avoid bias in the development of computing innovations
CRD - 1.C Demonstrate effective interpersonal skills during collaboration.
CRD - 1.C.1 Effective collaborative teams practice interpersonal skills, including, but not limited to: Communication, Consesus Building, Conflict Resolution, Negotiation

Notes
Different people in different departments work on different subjects and interests.

A program always start up with an idea, purpose and plan. A program must have requirements of the that meet the necessary constraints it must meet.

Developers are able to practice better interpersonal skills in a diverse team.

Pair Programming: One programmer types the code, while the other reviews each line of code.

Think-Pair-Share: Students think through a problem alone, pair with a partner to share ideas, and then share results with the class

This is the beginning of planning for the Create Performance Task assignment. More will be added to this post as weeks go by until it is time to code.

What I know that could help with the project:

How to make a quiz
How to create list
How to use dictionaries
How to explain the code I have made
What I need for the project:

Learn how to use different functions
Learn how to display variables correctly
Look at examples of bad, good, and great Performance Task Projects
Look over the college board requirements

