---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Week 7
categories: [Week 7]
title: Notes from College Board 1.3
comments: true
--- 

{% include submenu2.html %}

# Notes from College Board 1.3


There are multiple steps within the development process. The following phrases are commonly used when developing a program. Research, Designing, Prototyping, Testing, followed by revisions. Revisions are a key part of this process and will happen several times. This developmental process is iterative and requires refinement and revision based on testing and feedback. This may require revisiting earlier phrases of the process. Investigation is useful in development for understanding and identifying the program constraints, as well as the requirements of the people who will use the program. Investigation can be perfomed by collecting user data, having beta testing, interviews, and direct observations.


Learning Objectives CRD - 2.E - Develop a program using a development process. CRD - 2.F - Design a program and its user interface CRD - 2.E.1 - A development process can be ordered and intentional, or exploratory in nature.
CRD - 2.E.2 - There are multiple development processes. The following phases are commonly used when developing a program:

Investigating and reflecting
Designing
Prototyping
Testing
CRD - 2.E.3 - A development process that is iterative requires refinement and revision based on feedback, testing, or reflection throughout the process. This may require revisiting earlier phases of the process.
CRD - 2.F.1 - The design of a program incorporates investigation to determine its requirements. CRD - 2.F.2 - Investigation in a development process is useful for understanding and identifying the program constraints, as well as the concerns and interests of the people who will use the program.
CRD - 2.F.3 - Some ways investigation can be performed are as follows:

Collecting data through surveys
User testing
Interviews
CRD - 2.F.4 - Program requirements describe how a program functions and may include a description of user interactions that a program must provide.
CRD - 2.F.5 - A program’s specification defines the requirements for the program.
CRD - 2.F.6 - In a development process, the design phase outlines how to accomplish a given program specification.
CRD - 2.F.7 - The design phase of a program may include:

Brainstorming
Planning and storyboarding
Organizing the program into modules and functional components
Creation of diagrams that represent the layouts of the user interface
Development of a testing strategy for the program


