---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Create Task Introduction
categories: [Week 3]
title: Create Task Introduction
comments: true
--- 



### Idea

Create a quiz that tests athletes on there athletic and mental strengths and weaknesses, and through their responses record and calulate a postion that is best for them in a specific sport.


### College Board Rubric


#### Purpose: 



#### Functionality:

This program will first indicate user to select a sport that they play or are interested in. Afterwards buttonsyou to the final page. The final page outputs which position is best for the sport that you selected in the first page.


#### Data Abstraction:

Each of the questions are stored in a list. Backend processes recording and calculating responses are stored in variables that are increased or decreased in abstracted code.



#### Managing Complexity:

In order to manage the complexity of this quiz, I will  type many comments and ordered my code in a readable fashion in order to ensure that the code is very easy to follow. The comments allow us to communicate what we are doing with each function and what the purpose of the variables are. Code should also be efficent and redundant, this can be done through data and procedural abstraction. 



#### Procedural Abstraction:

The first function will allow the user to select the sport that they will quiz themselves on and start the quiz. After that there is a series of functions that display a question and answer buttons that have different backend processes for every different answer button. There will be a button on the bottom of each of these answer functions that allow the user to move on to the next page. The final page will display the position that is best for the player.




#### Algorithm Implementation:

Iteration and use of conditional statements will be used to record and calculate user input and output data that is useful for the user.
I will user similar algorithms for  questions pages but each screen change for question and the final page had different algoritmn implementation.




#### Testing:

Test the quiz during the process of coding to make sure the code runs neatly. Test the quiz after the code is fully programmed and make sure all the processes are running correctly and efficently.





