---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Week 7
categories: [Week 7]
title: Notes from College Board 1.2
comments: true
--- 

{% include submenu2.html %}

# Notes from College Board 1.2

Video Notes
Computer programs accept input in a variety of different forms (tacile aka touch, audio, visual, text). Programs are mostly event-driven –> events (mouse clicks, screen taps/swipes, physical button clicks, eyboard entries, audio keywords/phrases) are triggered by actions, which sends input to the program. Input affects output of a program. Outputs can be visual, audio,touch/feel(vibrations), text, etc. A program (aka software) is a collection of statements. A statement is a single command, a group of statements is a code segment. To describe a code segment, first state what it does, and then include how it does it.

Learning Objectives
CRD - 2.A - Describe the purpose of a computing innovation.
CRD - 2.A.1 - The purpose of computing innovations is to solve problems or to pursue interests through creative expression.
CRD - 2.A.2 - An understanding of the purpose of a computing innovation provides developers with an improved abiltiy to develop that essential knowledge on.

Notes
Different innovations are contained under different categories of innovations

Program inputs are pecies of data that are sent to computers for processing and interpretation. The computer will then perform operations and manipulate teh data in order to produce a desirable. Inputs can either come from the user themselves, or from another program.

Every event in a program is associated with an action that supplies an input to the program.

Event Driven Programming: Program segments and code fragments are executed based on events that trigger specific control flow structures rather an a smooth, sequential flow.

A program is a collection of software statements that collectively serves a specific use and performs a certain task.

The program works for a variety of inputs and situations. (Think of it like a function)